Java: Add new quality query to detect empty methods (#18947)
github/codeql: java/ql/src/Language Abuse/EmptyMethod.md

## Overview

An empty method may indicate that an implementation was intended to be provided but was accidentally omitted. When using the method, it will not be clear that it does not provide an implementation and with dynamic dispatch, resolving to a blank method may result in unexpected program behaviour.

## Recommendation

> If a method is intended to be left empty, do one of the following to indicate that it is intentionally empty: 1) mark it abstract in an abstract class, 2) place it in an interface (then it can be implicitly abstract), 3) place a comment in that method that lets others know that the implementation was intentionally omitted, or 4) throw an `UnsupportedOperationException` in the method (like is done in `java.util.Collections.add`).

Reviewer: Typo
```suggestion
If a method is intended to be left empty, do one of the following to indicate that it is intentionally empty: 1) mark it abstract in an abstract class, 2) place it in an interface (then it can be implicitly abstract), 3) place a comment in that method that lets others know that the implementation was intentionally omitted, or 4) throw an `UnsupportedOperationException` in the method (like is done in `java.util.Collection.add`).
```

## Example

```java
public class Test {
    public void f1() { // COMPLIANT
        // intentionally empty
    }

    public void f2() {} // NON_COMPLIANT

    public void f3(){ throw new UnsupportedOperationException(); } // COMPLIANT

    public abstract class TestInner {

        public abstract void f(); // COMPLIANT - intentionally empty
    }

}
```

## Implementation Notes

The rule excludes reporting methods that are annotated.

## References
- Java SE Documentation: [java.util.Collection.add](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/docs/api/java.base/java/util/Collection.html#add(E))

> - Wikipedia: [Template method pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_method_pattern)

Reviewer: Based on discussion elsewhere, we currently need to add CWE references manually to markdown query helps.
```suggestion
- Wikipedia: [Template method pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_method_pattern)
- Common Weakness Enumeration: [CWE-1071](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1071.html)
```

> - Wikipedia: [Template pattern is a valid empty method use](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_method_pattern)

Reviewer: Should be just the name of the page.
```suggestion
- Wikipedia: [Template method pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_method_pattern)
```

## Overview

> An empty method may indicate that an implementation was intended to be provided but was accidentally omitted. When using the method, it will not be clear that it does not provide an implementation and with dynamic dispatch, resolving to a blank method may result in unexpected program behaviour.

Reviewer 2: US spelling
```suggestion
An empty method may indicate that an implementation was intended to be provided but was accidentally omitted. When using the method, it will not be clear that it does not provide an implementation and with dynamic dispatch, resolving to a blank method may result in unexpected program behavior.
```

## Recommendation

> If a method is intended to be left empty, do one of the following to indicate that it is intentionally empty: 1) mark it abstract in an abstract class, 2) place it in an interface (then it can be implicitly abstract), 3) place a comment in that method that lets others know that the implementation was intentionally omitted, or 4) throw an `UnsupportedOperationException` in the method (like is done in `java.util.Collection.add`).

Reviewer 2: Would it make sense to have these options in a bulleted or numbered list, to improve readability?
Also fixed typo, and tweaked some content.

```suggestion
If a method is intended to be left empty, do one of the following to indicate that it is intentionally empty: 
1. Mark it abstract in an abstract class
2. Place it in an interface (then it can be implicitly abstract)
3. Place a comment in that method that lets others know that the implementation was intentionally omitted
4. Used `UnsupportedOperationException` in the method (as in `java.util.Collection.add`).
```

## Example

```java
public class Test {
    public void f1() { // COMPLIANT
        // intentionally empty
    }

    public void f2() {} // NON_COMPLIANT

    public void f3(){ throw new UnsupportedOperationException(); } // COMPLIANT

    public abstract class TestInner {

        public abstract void f(); // COMPLIANT - intentionally empty
    }

}
```

## Implementation Notes

The rule excludes reporting methods that are annotated.

## References

> - Java SE Documentation: [java.util.Collection.add](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/docs/api/java.base/java/util/Collection.html#add(E))

Reviewer 2: Reference links need a full stop.
```suggestion
- Java SE Documentation: [java.util.Collection.add](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/docs/api/java.base/java/util/Collection.html#add(E)).
```

> - Wikipedia: [Template method pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_method_pattern)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Wikipedia: [Template method pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_method_pattern).
```

> - Common Weakness Enumeration: [CWE-1071](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1071.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Common Weakness Enumeration: [CWE-1071](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1071.html).
```
